# The Hot Zone
[Goodreads Review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7584803284)

So about 20 years ago, I read this fascinating book called Level 4: Virus Hunters of the CDC (https://www.amazon.com/Level-4-Virus-...) which was my first introduction to super infectious agents. That book was written by Joe McCormick and Susan Hoch and one of the most compelling story within the book was when the Author (Joe) was in Africa trying to find Ebola and accidentally pricked himself with presumably infected blood from a patient in a tent. He apparently has ice cold veins because he then carried on with his work, sent away the help (knowing if he got it he's dead anyway), and then drinking away his worries with a bottle of scotch. He survived because the patient probably had malaria and not ebola, but it was the risk assessment of "well nothing to be done about it, might as well make the most of my time left" that impressed me the most.

Why i mentioned that book in such lurid details is because 20 years later, I'm reading the companion book to that. In the sense that there's really multiple health agencies in the country that compete with each other and cooperate with each other depending on their needs and political goals. This book was written before Level 4 and Level 4 was apparently written as a response to this book which makes it fascinating since I finally got to see the opposite side of what Joe was writing about 20 years ago.

The usual things are here, how ebola is transmitted, how it kills, and what it does. And the focus of the book is about the Reston incident, where a warehouse full of monkeys had to be put down because they were infectious. It goes through how the Army basically took over a civilian building and why they did what they did to control the situation. Also mentioned is the CDC (which Joe was head of, or a big part of) and how they did incident response from a civilian perspective. They're all serving the same purpose (contain the virus) but how they do it had very different political and ideological goals and its super interesting to see that.

All that to say, both books are worth reading because they focus on different parts of the Reston incident (its a much smaller part in Level 4 whereas its a good 60% of Hot Zone). The characters are named in both books so its really good to see it on both sides. Its too bad a movie wasn't made from the Reston incident that combines both perspectives becuase I feel like that'd make for a real banger of a movie.

In any case, I highly recommend this book as it goes over all the important details of Ebola as a disease, its possible root cause, and how an almost disastrous incident almost happened in the US. It mostly talks about the Army's perspective on this and also gives you a good idea of how crisis management happens from a military perspective.

For the civilian side, definitely read Level 4. Just as fascinating and probably my next big read.